Improve your English with our free resources
Learn English online using our high-quality resources to improve your English. This website is created for adult learners of English by the British Council, the world's English teaching experts.

Learn English every day
Whether you have ten minutes or an hour to practise your English, you'll find a wide variety of learning materials to help you make progress and improve your language skills. All the activities on the LearnEnglish website are designed for self-study to support your learning, with interactive exercises and worksheets.
Practising little and often is the best way to improve your English, so come back regularly to see what's new on the site.
Take our free online test
Start by taking our online level test to give you an approximate indication of your English proficiency level. You can then use the result to help you find content on our website that is appropriate for your English language ability.
Discover your level
Improve your English skills
Improving your skills will help you use English more effectively so that you can do well in your studies, get ahead at work and confidently communicate in English in your free time.
Practise and improve your speaking, listening, reading and writing
Learning materials organised by language level (CEFR A1–C1)
Variety of types of texts, recordings and videos
Go to Skills
Practise your English grammar
By revising and practising your grammar, you will increase your accuracy and confidence in English and improve your overall language level.
Clear and simple grammar lessons
Check your understanding and practise using English grammar
A grammar reference helps to explain the verb tenses and grammar rules
Go to Grammar
Increase your English vocabulary
Learning new words helps you to increase your understanding and express yourself clearly in English.
Learn new words at your level
Vocabulary organised by topic
Practise spelling and using the new words in a variety of contexts
Go to Vocabulary
Develop your business English language skills
This Fauchelevent was one of the few enemies whom M. Madeleine had at that time. When Madeleine arrived in the neighborhood, Fauchelevent, an ex-notary and a peasant who was almost educated, had a business which was beginning to be in a bad way. Fauchelevent had seen this simple workman grow rich, while he, a lawyer, was being ruined. This had filled him with jealousy, and he had done all he could, on every occasion, to injure Madeleine. Then bankruptcy had come; and as the old man had nothing left but a cart and a horse, and neither family nor children, he had turned carter.

The horse had two broken legs and could not rise. The old man was caught in the wheels. The fall had been so unlucky that the whole weight of the vehicle rested on his breast. The cart was quite heavily laden. Father Fauchelevent was rattling in the throat in the most lamentable manner. They had tried, but in vain, to drag him out. An unmethodical effort, aid awkwardly given, a wrong shake, might kill him. It was impossible to disengage him otherwise than by lifting the vehicle off of him. Javert, who had come up at the moment of the accident, had sent for a jack-screw.

M. Madeleine arrived. People stood aside respectfully.

“Help!” cried old Fauchelevent. “Who will be good and save the old man?”

M. Madeleine turned towards those present:—

“Is there a jack-screw to be had?”

“One has been sent for,” answered the peasant.

“How long will it take to get it?”

“They have gone for the nearest, to Flachot’s place, where there is a farrier; but it makes no difference; it will take a good quarter of an hour.”

“A quarter of an hour!” exclaimed Madeleine.

It had rained on the preceding night; the soil was soaked.

The cart was sinking deeper into the earth every moment, and crushing the old carter’s breast more and more. It was evident that his ribs would be broken in five minutes more.

“It is impossible to wait another quarter of an hour,” said Madeleine to the peasants, who were staring at him.

“We must!”

“But it will be too late then! Don’t you see that the cart is sinking?”

“Well!”

“Listen,” resumed Madeleine; “there is still room enough under the cart to allow a man to crawl beneath it and raise it with his back. Only half a minute, and the poor man can be taken out. Is there any one here who has stout loins and heart? There are five louis d’or to be earned!”

Not a man in the group stirred.

“Ten louis,” said Madeleine.

The persons present dropped their eyes. One of them muttered: “A man would need to be devilish strong. And then he runs the risk of getting crushed!”

“Come,” began Madeleine again, “twenty louis.”

The same silence.

“It is not the will which is lacking,” said a voice.

M. Madeleine turned round, and recognized Javert. He had not noticed him on his arrival.

Javert went on:—

“It is strength. One would have to be a terrible man to do such a thing as lift a cart like that on his back.”

Then, gazing fixedly at M. Madeleine, he went on, emphasizing every word that he uttered:—

“Monsieur Madeleine, I have never known but one man capable of doing what you ask.”

Madeleine shuddered.

Javert added, with an air of indifference, but without removing his eyes from Madeleine:—

“He was a convict.”

“Ah!” said Madeleine.

“In the galleys at Toulon.”
Studying business English allows you to develop English language skills that are useful in many working environments.

Wide variety of activities to develop your interview skills, write clear emails in English and learn about up-to-date business topics and issues
Specially designed tasks to help you understand the topic and use the language skills that you have learned
Go to Business English

Improve your general English
Improving your knowledge of everyday English helps give you the confidence you need for socialising with friends and colleagues.

Wide range of reading, listening and language practice activities
Short, interesting articles for you to read about special days and global issues
YouTube videos about a wide range of topics, with learning materials to improve your comprehension and check your understanding
Go to General English

Join our community events
The British Council organises events on social media where you can ask our expert educators questions. If you have any questions about our courses or about learning English in general, you're welcome to join our live events on Facebook and YouTube. They're free and you can join as many as you want.

Find out more

Find online English courses to suit your learning style
Whether you want to improve your English reading and writing skills, learn to speak English more fluently or simply develop your English vocabulary, we offer a range of flexible and personalised online courses to suit your unique style of learning.

Choose between self-study or teacher-led learning and discover a wide variety of exclusive learning materials to support your study of the English language. Experience live, online group classes, personalised learning pathways, detailed progress tracking and valuable feedback.

Find out more

Find courses for your children
Discover our English courses for children of all ages, developed by our team of English language experts.

Primary Plus for ages 6–12
Secondary Plus for ages 12–17
Study with our LearnEnglish apps
We have a selection of apps for both adult learners and primary-age and pre-school children.

Find out more

Follow us on Facebook and Instagram